The Honourable Dr. B. R. Ambedkar (Bombay:General): Mr. President, Sir, I introduce the DraftConstitution as settled by the Drafting Committee andmove that it 
be taken into consideration.The Drafting Committee was appointed by a  Resolution passed by the Constituent Assembly onAugust 29, 1947.
The Drafting Committee was in effect charged withthe duty of preparing a Constitution in accordance with
the decisions of the Constituent Assembly on the reports made by the various Committees appointed by it such
as the Union Powers Committee, the Union ConstitutionCommittee, the Provincial Constitution Committee
and the Advisory Committee on Fundamental Rights,Minorities, Tribal Areas, etc. The Constituent Assembly
had also directed that in certain matters the provisionscontained in the Government of India Act, 1935, should
be followed. Except on points which are referred to in myletter of the 21st February 1948 in which I have referred
to the departures made and alternatives suggested bythe Drafting Committee, I hope the Drafting Committee
will be found to have faithfully carried out the directionsgiven to it.The Draft Constitution as it has emerged from
the Drafting Committee is a formidable document.It contains 315 Articles and 8 Schedules. It must be
admitted that the Constitution of no country could befound to be so bulky as the Draft Constitution. It would
be difficult for those who have not been through it to realize its salient and special features.The Draft Constitution has been before the public
for eight months. During this long time friends, criticsand adversaries have had more than sufficient time
to express their reactions to the provisions containedin it. I dare say that some of them are based on
misunderstanding and inadequate understanding of theArticles. But there the criticisms are and they have to
be answered.For both these reasons it is necessary that on amotion for consideration I should draw your attention to
the special features of the Constitution and also meetthe criticism that has been levelled against it.
Before I proceed to do so I would like to placeon the table of the House Reports of three Committees
appointed by the Constituent Assembly (1) Report ofthe Committee on Chief Commissioners’ Provinces (2)
Report of the Expert Committee on Financial Relationsbetween the Union and the States, and (3) Report of the
Advisory Committee on Tribal Areas, which came toolate to be considered by that Assembly though copies of
them have been circulated to Members of the Assembly.As these reports and the recommendations made therein
have been considered by the Drafting Committee it isonly proper that the House should formally be placed in
possession of them.Turning to the main question. A student ofConstitutional Law if a copy of a Constitution is placedin his hands is sure to ask two questions. Firstly what
is the form of Government that is envisaged in theConstitution; and secondly what in the form of the
which every Constitution has to deal with. I will beginwith the first of the two questions.In the Draft Constitution there is placed at the
head of the Indian Union a functionary who is calledthe President of the Union. The title of this functionary5reminds one of the President of the United States. But
beyond identity of names there is nothing in common between the forms of Government prevalent in America
and the form of Government proposed under the Draft Constitution. The American form of Government is called
the Presidential system of Government. What the Draft Constitution proposes is the Parliamentary system. The
two are fundamentally different.